HOW TO: Export Custom Components (#219)
surveyjs/survey-pdf: docs/export-custom-components.md

---
title: Export Custom Questions to PDF | SurveyJS PDF Generator

> description: Learn how to export custom questions and third-party components to a PDF form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to export custom questions and third-party components to PDF.

```

---

# Export Custom Questions and Third-Party Components to PDF

This help topic describes how to export custom questions that use [third-party components](https://surveyjs.io/survey-creator/documentation/customize-question-types/third-party-component-integration-react) to PDF. You can export custom questions as plain text, use a predefined renderer to export a custom question as an out-of-the-box question, or implement a custom PDF brick to customize the export as you like.

## Render Custom Questions as Text

SurveyJS PDF Generator exports custom questions as plain non-editable text that displays question values.

![SurveyJS PDF Generator - Render custom questions as text](images/export-custom-question-as-text.png)

Since this is the default behavior, you do not need to specifically configure it.

## Use a Predefined Renderer

> If your custom question extends one of the out-of-the-box question types ([`QuestionTextModel`](https://surveyjs.io/form-library/documentation/api-reference/text-entry-question-model), [`QuestionCheckboxModel`](https://surveyjs.io/form-library/documentation/api-reference/checkbox-question-model), [`QuestionDropdownModel`](https://surveyjs.io/form-library/documentation/api-reference/dropdown-menu-model), etc.), it can use the renderer of the extended question type. For instance, the following code specifies to use a Text Input question renderer to export a custom `color-picker` question:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your custom question extends one of the out-of-the-box question types ([`QuestionTextModel`](https://surveyjs.io/form-library/documentation/api-reference/text-entry-question-model), [`QuestionCheckboxModel`](https://surveyjs.io/form-library/documentation/api-reference/checkbox-question-model), [`QuestionDropdownModel`](https://surveyjs.io/form-library/documentation/api-reference/dropdown-menu-model), etc.), it can use the renderer of the extended question type. For instance, the following code specifies the use of a Text Input question renderer to export a custom `color-picker` question:

```

> If your custom question extends one of the out-of-the-box question types ([`QuestionTextModel`](https://surveyjs.io/form-library/documentation/api-reference/text-entry-question-model), [`QuestionCheckboxModel`](https://surveyjs.io/form-library/documentation/api-reference/checkbox-question-model), [`QuestionDropdownModel`](https://surveyjs.io/form-library/documentation/api-reference/dropdown-menu-model), etc.), you can use the same renderer used by the extended question type. For instance, the following code specifies to use a Text Input question renderer to export a custom `color-picker` question:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your custom question extends one of the out-of-the-box question types ([`QuestionTextModel`](https://surveyjs.io/form-library/documentation/api-reference/text-entry-question-model), [`QuestionCheckboxModel`](https://surveyjs.io/form-library/documentation/api-reference/checkbox-question-model), [`QuestionDropdownModel`](https://surveyjs.io/form-library/documentation/api-reference/dropdown-menu-model), etc.), you can use the extended question type's renderer. For instance, the following code uses a Text Input question renderer to export a custom `color-picker` question:

```

```js
import { FlatRepository } from "survey-pdf";

FlatRepository.register(
  "color-picker",
  FlatRepository.getRenderer("text")
);
```

The image below illustrates the result:

![SurveyJS PDF Generator - Export custom questions using a predefined renderer](images/export-custom-question-with-predefined-renderer.png)

<!-- TODO: Update the example to use the new API -->
<!-- [Example](https://codesandbox.io/s/amazing-fast-kb5lkq?file=/src/SurveyPdfComponent.jsx) -->

## Implement a Custom PDF Brick

> If none of the previous options suit your scenario, you can implement a custom PDF brick that uses a [jsPDF API](https://raw.githack.com/MrRio/jsPDF/master/docs/jsPDF.html) to render your custom question. Create a custom class that extends the [`PdfBrick`](https://surveyjs.io/pdf-generator/documentation/api-reference/pdfbrick) class. Within this custom class, implement the `renderInteractive()` method. In the following code, it calls the [`setFillColor()`](https://artskydj.github.io/jsPDF/docs/jsPDF.html#setFillColor) and [`rect()`](https://artskydj.github.io/jsPDF/docs/jsPDF.html#rect) jsPDF methods to render a custom Color question as a rectangle filled with a selected color.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If none of the previous options is suitable for your scenario, you can implement a custom PDF brick that uses a [jsPDF API](https://raw.githack.com/MrRio/jsPDF/master/docs/jsPDF.html) to render your custom question. Create a custom class that extends the [`PdfBrick`](https://surveyjs.io/pdf-generator/documentation/api-reference/pdfbrick) class. Within this custom class, implement the `renderInteractive()` method. In the following code, it calls the [`setFillColor()`](https://artskydj.github.io/jsPDF/docs/jsPDF.html#setFillColor) and [`rect()`](https://artskydj.github.io/jsPDF/docs/jsPDF.html#rect) jsPDF methods to render a custom Color question as a rectangle filled with a selected color.

```

> If none of the previous options suit your scenario, you can implement a custom PDF brick that uses a [jsPDF API](https://raw.githack.com/MrRio/jsPDF/master/docs/jsPDF.html) to render your custom question. Create a custom class that extends the [`PdfBrick`](https://surveyjs.io/pdf-generator/documentation/api-reference/pdfbrick) class. Within this custom class, implement the `renderInteractive()` method. In the following code, it calls the [`setFillColor()`](https://artskydj.github.io/jsPDF/docs/jsPDF.html#setFillColor) and [`rect()`](https://artskydj.github.io/jsPDF/docs/jsPDF.html#rect) jsPDF methods to render a custom Color question as a rectangle filled with a selected color.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If none of the previous options suits your scenario, you can implement a custom PDF brick that uses a [jsPDF API](https://raw.githack.com/MrRio/jsPDF/master/docs/jsPDF.html) to render your custom question. Create a custom class that extends the [`PdfBrick`](https://surveyjs.io/pdf-generator/documentation/api-reference/pdfbrick) class. Within this custom class, implement the `renderInteractive()` method. In the following code, this method calls the [`setFillColor()`](https://artskydj.github.io/jsPDF/docs/jsPDF.html#setFillColor) and [`rect()`](https://artskydj.github.io/jsPDF/docs/jsPDF.html#rect) jsPDF methods to render a custom Color question as a rectangle filled with a selected color.

```

```js
class CustomPdfBrick extends PdfBrick {
  async renderInteractive() {
    const doc = this.controller.doc;
    let oldFillColor = doc.getFillColor();
    doc.setFillColor(this.question.value || "black");
    doc.rect(this.xLeft, this.yTop, this.width, this.height, "F");
    doc.setFillColor(oldFillColor);
  }
}
```

> To use this custom PDF brick, you need to configure a custom renderer. Create a custom class by extending the `FlatQuestion` class and implement the `generateFlatsContent()` method within it. This method accepts a point at which drawing starts and returns an array of PDF bricks. Register the custom class as a renderer for your custom question type (`"color-picker"` in the code below).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use this custom PDF brick, you need to configure a custom renderer. To create a custom class, extend the `FlatQuestion` class and implement the `generateFlatsContent()` method within it. This method accepts a drawing start point and returns an array of PDF bricks. Register the custom class as a renderer for your custom question type (`"color-picker"` in the code below).

```
